while the events in Raa are unfolding a
ceasefire negotiations brokered by Qatar
and Egypt are being held in Cairo
Israel's prime minister says the
proposal Hamas has agreed to falls short
of Israel's
demands Israel will not allow Hamas to
return to rule in Gaza we will not allow
them to rebuild their military
capabilities and continue their project
of destroying us Israel will not approve
any proposal that constitutes a threat
to Israel's security and future for that
reason I have ordered our delegation
that went to Cairo to continue to insist
on our demand to guarantee our security
in parallel we will continue our war
against Hamas our entry into Rafa is a
very important step our army is on its
way to destroy the remainder of their
capabilities Hamas says that if Israel's
military aggression continues in ra
there will be no ceasefire deal the
senior spokesperson for Hamas Usama
hamdan says it's now up to Israel
whether or not a deal goes
through we would like to stress the fact
that the ball now is in netanyahu's
court and their behavior and attitude
after we announced our agreement
reflects determination by this criminal
to foil all attempts of mediation
including those of the United States and
expresses his carelessness for the lives
of the captives who are threatened every
day through the bombardments of the
Israeli milit
we'll bring in our correspondent
Muhammad Jam jum who's joining us now
from the Jordanian capital and Muhammad
let me first ask you about reporting uh
that seems to suggest that the US has
paused a weapon shipment to Israel what
more can you tell us about this and the
details of
it so Daren we haven't gotten any
official response from the Israeli
government to these reports uh what we
are seeing are statements uh by some
officials anonymously sourced officials
in Israeli media uh and the suggestions
are that folks in Israel are concerned
members of the security establ
especially that um the halting of this
weapon shipment is a tactic by the US to
increase pressure on the US government
to stop a an allout invasion of RA and
also to try to move the Israeli
government into accepting the terms of a
ceasefire now there aren't a lot of
details being reported about what was in
that weapon shipment we are seeing
numbers like uh perhaps around 1,800
2,000 lb bombs and around 1700 500 lb
bombs those would have been included uh
we're told in that shipment that was
halted at least the reports are
suggesting that now of course we should
stress that this is a very small amount
of weapons compared to the number of
weapons that the US provides to Israel
this is really just a drop in the ocean
when you look at the type of Weaponry
that the US continues to provide to
Israel but it does seem even though
nothing official from top Israeli
officials uh it does seem that there is
concern among the security and Military
establishment based on some of the
quotes we're seeing in Israeli media
reports that this perhaps is a harbinger
of things to come meaning that if Israel
doesn't start adhering more to what the
US wants perhaps the US will halt
further uh shipments of weapons going
forward and okay Mohammad when it comes
to what's happening right now and we
know that the ceasefire negotiations are
still taking place in Cairo how much
pressure is there internally on uh
Netanyahu because we've seen the
demonstrations in Tel Aviv not only take
place but they seem to be growing as
well yeah that's right and and you know
the last two days there have been
demonstrations in various cities in
Israel mostly held by relatives of the
Israeli captives still being held in
Gaza when it was announced that Hamas uh
was accepting the ceasefire proposal
that had been presented to them you had
we're told hundreds of demonstrators go
out on the streets in Tel Aviv that
evening and they were saying that they
were going to stay out all night they
were going to continue to come out to
put pressure on the government to enter
into a ceasefire agreement so that they
could get their loved ones back uh
yesterday there were reports that there
were demos also in Tel Aviv this morning
even there are reports and there are
videos popping up online on social media
channels uh showing a smaller group uh
perhaps dozens of relatives of captives
being held in Gaza but out there
blocking one of the main streets ion
Street in Northern Tel Aviv trying to
send a message to the government that
they are going to continue to mobilize
now Darin we are now reporting out of
Aman Jordan because we're no longer
allowed to report in Israel our office
space was shut down but I can tell you I
was in Tel Aviv this past Saturday at
one of the weekly demos that happens uh
in on Saturday in Tel Aviv there were
thousands of anti-government
demonstrators relatives of captives um
they were saying the time is now for
Israel to go ahead and enter into a deal
they were chanting there is a document
in front of you sign on the dotted line
they want to see this come to an end
they say there is no more uh Paramount
importance as far as any issue in Israel
right now now as far as getting back
those captives uh so there is mounting
pressure on Netanyahu he has not seeded
to any of that pressure as of yet but
it's going to be interesting to see at
such a crucial hour such a critical time
when negotiations are ongoing if more
people will be going out into the
streets and mobilizing and how much more
pressure political pressure that will
put on the Prime Minister okay Muhammad
thank you so much for that reporting
from Aman and once again just to remind
our viewers mhammad jamj is reporting
for us from Aman because Benjamin
netanyahu's cabinet has banned Al jazer
so that's why we're having to report
from outside of Israel and that is a
live shot from uh Gaza right now uh this
morning let's uh continue the
conversation about the weapons uh
shipment uh the pause I should say in a
shipment of weapons to Israel by the US
and speak to Amir Orin who's a military
and government commentator with herro's
newspaper joining us from T Aviv Mr Orin
thanks for your time so how is this
being viewed in Israel
well it's viewed as a very significant
move and um uh in order to understand
the background it's both legal and
political later today uh May 8th uh
Secretary of State uh blink and
Secretary of Defense Austin must certify
that all arms shipments to Israel as
well as to other countries are given or
sold when these countries uphold the
international law and do not violate
human rights and do not impede
humanitarian Aid now um as the time for
this document to be signed uh was
getting closed Netanyahu kept talking
about the Rafa operation in direct uh
opposition to President Biden so after
all the public statements and the phone
calls between Biden and Netanyahu did
not help the administration took a
two-step move first of all it secretly
haltered or posed this particular
shipment because it was the next in line
it didn't have any particular
significance per se but the shipment was
next in line and this was a signal
intended only for the Israeli cabinet to
understand that did not help yeah okay
so when it comes to this signal what is
the US signaling to Israel or is the US
trying to pressure them not to continue
with this offensive or is is the US
trying to pressure Israel into uh these
ceasefire negotiations and eventually
deal what's going on
here in a general sense and it's very
ironic because usually when we speak
about deterrence we speak about the
political will of governments to execute
what they say to make good on their
threats and here the threat was not
against an adversary but against uh a
partner or a lie and uh when the
Netanyahu government uh decided to
challenge the Biden Administration and
ignore its warnings then Biden had to
show nany that he's serious now uh yes
it has to do with uh with the Rafa
operation because uh Biden uh demanded
that netan not take undertake any major
military operation that is a ground
maneuver of course surgical raids raids
in order to release the hostages or
perhaps even to kill or capture the
Hamas leadership are fine as far as
Washington is concerned but not a
massive movement from the ground but
also with L support which will drive the
1.4 million
civilians anywhere upth I mean besides
this being a symbolic move as many are
describing it what difference does it
actually make to Israel practically on
the ground because even us officials are
saying that the Israeli military has
enough weapons supplied by the Us and
other partners to conduct the RFA
operation if it chooses not to listen to
the US's objections
you know no battle is the very last one
and no war can end without the
government and Military being prepared
for the next one and uh even though one
particular action can uh be executed
with whatever you have in stock you must
replenish your stock in order to prepare
for Lebanon for instance or for another
Iranian contingency so it doesn't have
to do only with what is happening
tomorrow you must think about next week
and next year okay uh thank you so much
for speaking to us from Tel Aviva Orin
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler